In this lesson, let's see how the process of compiling our source codes is going on.
Let's deal with all the additional files that are in our project, and also talk about engine macros.
This section is advanced, so you can skip it in general.
In the course of the course, we will not need the information from this lesson, with the exception of some things that we will consider
in the corresponding lessons. But for a general understanding of how the Unreal Engine works, this information will be very useful.
The first file that we will look at is called GeometrySandbox.Build.cs
This build file is written in C # - it sets the rules according to which the source
code of our project - GeometrySandbox will be built . When we start the build by clicking, for example, on the Play Local Windows Debugger button,
a special utility called Unreal Build Tool is launched.
This is a special subroutine that comes with the Unreal Engine. We can find it in the engine directory.
Go to the Unreal Engine root folder, to the Engine / Binaries / DotNet folder. If you filter by extension,
you can find this program UnrealBuildTool.exe, that is, in fact, visual studio launches this
program with various commad line arguments. In general, we can create some kind of bat file to
build our game that will call this program. And in accordance with the settings of our
build file, the sources are compiled. Let's go further. All engine code is made up of modules.
A module is a building block in which some functionality is encapsulated. It can be artificial intelligence,
special effects, user interface, and so on. Moreover, our project with the game is also
a module. In each build file, the module class inherits from a special class
called ModuleRules. By default, our class has several settings. Now we will be
interested in a list called PublicDependencyModuleNames
This list specifies the modules that our project will depend on. By default, 4 main engine modules are added.
In solution explorer, we can open the UE4 project. Go to the source folder, to the runtime folder.
This folder contains the engine sources, and each folder is a module. That is, we can find:
Core, CoreUObject and if we open the module, we will see that the same build.cs file is located at the root.For an
example, we can open the InputCore build file and see how the module is being built.
Note that the compilation of this module will depend on the target platform.
Also in the build file, we can add dependencies on various third-party libraries. For example, if we want to connect a
machine learning library or a computer vision library, all this can be configured in the build file.
In the description for the lecture, I will also leave a link to the documentation for the build file of the module.
You can see what build options are available. I repeat once again - this information is for the advanced level.
We may need it if the usual assembly of the project is not enough. During our course
we will go into this file, but the settings will be quite simple.
So, everything consists of modules, our game is also a module. Let's also take a look at two more generated files
that are in the root of the project: GeometrySandbox.h and .cpp
In this file, using a special macro, the main game module is specified, that is, roughly speaking, the game itself can also consist
of several modules. We have one module with you, so its name is specified
in the file that is generated by default . We will not touch this file at all. If you open the main file of our
project, with the extension .uproject, you can see that this file is actually
JSON markup. The modules field contains an array of game modules objects; there are also additional parameters.
We have one module with you - GeometrySandbox. The version of the engine is also indicated, various descriptions,
which we have empty. With the help of .uproject, the Unreal Engine is able to generate the necessary files for the project and
also run in accordance with the settings of the Unreal Editor. Moving on. Let's deal with the
next thing. Our project has a little mess of header files and forward declaration.
In fact, it's good that this happened, since we will analyze this issue.
We open the SandboxPawn header file and we see that we have a forward declaration for the camera and at the same time we do
not have a forward declaration for the StaticMesh component, and we also have no errors when building the
project. What is going on with us? Why do we need to make a forward declaration
for the camera component , but no component for the static mesh? In fact, we can turn off most of the
header files that we have in the .cpp files, for example, turn off the static mesh , turn
off the input component, go to the BaseGeometryActor header file, remove the include static mesh
component. In the .cpp file, let's remove MaterialInstance, Engine and Timer. In the .cpp file of the
GeometryHubActor class, disable the world header file, remove the input component in the controller and build
our project without starting the editor. To do this, right-click on the project and select build.
We've successfully compiled everything without our header files. This happened as a result of the triggering of a
mechanism called precompiled headers. This is a mechanism that allows you to significantly
reduce the amount of work that the preprocessor must do when compiling a project. The idea is
to preprocess a group of files in advance and then just substitute the finished piece of text.
Let's open the build file of the Engine module. Before that, let's take a look at our module. The setting
responsible for precompiled headers is called PCHUsage. That is, precompiled headers usage.
And the default is the value at which shared pch files will be explicitly connected. Open the build
file of the Engine module and find a setting called SharedPCHHeaderFile. This file
will be added when compiling our module. Let's find it in the Engine module, in the public directory.
We open. This file contains headers that will be preprocessed, that is, this is
code that changes very rarely. Let's search the file.
We see that the StaticMeshComponent is located here, we can also find MaterialInstanceDynamic, TimerManager.
The InputComponent is also here and so on. And now it becomes clear why everything was
compiled correctly for us , that is, this header file was implicitly added when building our project.
Now let's change the setting a little and put NoPCHs. If you are using
unreal engine sources, then you can search the project and find this setting.
That is, now we are declaring that we do not want to use precompiled headers when building our project.
We execute build.
The project did not compile because the corresponding header files are not included in our code.
Let's bring them back.
Go to SandboxPawn. We make a forward declaration in the static mesh header file of the component.
In the .cpp file, we return the InputComponent header file and
we also need to connect the static mesh header file.
Go to BaseGeometryActor.
We also add a forward declaration for the static mesh component. Let's copy it from SandboxPawn.
Go to the .cpp file. Ctrl + Z return all header files.
Move to GeometryHubActor. Returning the world header file.
And in the controller, return the InputComponent header file.
Compile the project again.
Something is still forgotten. The BaseGeometryActor .cpp file also needs to include a static mesh component.
And in SandboxPlayerController we use a pointer to the world, so we include the header file Engine / World.h
This is how I described World. Putting the project together again.
Everything. Build successs. The project compiled successfully. We have correctly included all the header files that are needed in our project.
The only thing we did not include the SceneComponent header file, because its include
is in the actor class, which is accordingly in the pawn class. This can also be done,
it won't get any worse, but for some super basic types, this can be avoided, since we
are sure that they are connected either through PCH or through CoreMinimal.h, or their include is
somewhere in the parent class. Let's return the precompiled headers setting to its default state. The approach
we've just taken is called include what you see. I'll also leave a link to this page of the
Unreal documentation, you can read more, but in general, we have now covered it.
Let's also see how to quickly find the header file of the class we need. We just enter the class into google. The
Unreal documentation page opens . There is a table at the top of the page; the include field contains the header file
we are interested in . Or, if you already have a documentation page open, you can also enter the class of interest
in the search field and select the page with the class in the filtered information.
Let's move on to the two remaining files in the directory of our project: one of them is called GeometrySandbox.Target.cs
and the second GeometrySandbox.EditorTarget.cs In these C # files, additional
settings for the assembly are specified , depending on how we want to run our project. If we want
to run the game under the editor, then the EditorTarget is used, if we want to build a standalone
game, then the usual target is used, which corresponds to TargetType.Game
There are also additional types of targets, for example, if we want to build our game as a dedicated server,
then we will need to manually add GeometrySandbox.ServerTarget.cs to the project and
write TargetType.Server to the Type variable , that is, in these files we specify the specific settings for the
game assembly for certain targets. I will also include a link to the targeting documentation with the lecture. In our
course, we will not configure these files in any way, we will use what unreal generated for
us by default, but it is important to remember that when we start the game under the editor, EditorTarget is used,
and when we create a standalone build, we will pack the game into an exe file, then
another target will be used, which is of the game type. If you open the project
directory, the Binaries / Win64 folder, you can see that when launched for the editor, our code is collected in a special
.dll file. You can also go to the binaries directory of the engine, open the win64 subdirectory
and you can see that a special .dll file with TargetEditor has been created for each module, that is,
in fact, when we download the unreal engine from under the epic launcher, precompiled modules are
copied to our disk to in the form of binary .dll files, and when we want to compile unreal from
source, the compilation of modules and the creation of .dll files will take place on our local machine.
Now let's talk about unreal macros and code generation. Urneal implements its own
reflection systems or reflection system - this is the ability of a program to track and
modify its own structure and behavior during its execution. With the help of this system,
we can get information about types, call a function by name, get the names of enum elements,
we can create an iterator that will go through all the fields of the structure and get some information.
We can pass a pointer to the class whose object we want to create.
We have already done this trick with you, in GameMode, when we specified classes for the pawn and controller, on the basis of
which we want to create objects. This system significantly speeds up the development process and the areas of
its application are quite different. The most obvious is the use of an editor: outputting all properties to the interface
, communication of C ++ and blueprint code, serialization of objects, for example, if we
create several actors on the stage, change some properties for them, then close the editor,
reopen it - all property values ​​are place, that is, all properties were saved to disk
and then read from disk. Also on the basis of this system is the garbage collector.
Unreal has its own memory system, we will talk about it in the next lesson, and
you can also add networking to the scope of this system. In pure C ++, all these advantages are
naturally absent, this is the concept of a game engine, it is also important to note that unreal does not prohibit
writing in pure C ++, that is, you can create a regular C ++ class,
process some calculations in it and, for example, transfer the result of calculations in any actor.
Let's see what happens at the very beginning when we create a class from under the editor.
Open the directory where the engine is located, go to the Engine / Content / Editor / Templates folder.This
directory contains templates of all the main classes of the engine, if we open
the actor class template, we will see that this is a kind of meta file with a bunch of variables into which the
necessary ones are substituted class names, necessary copyrights, and so on, and as a result of the substitution of all
necessary variables, the final class file is created. Let's run the build of our project.
We have everything up to date, let's add an empty line and click on build again.
What happens at the very beginning? We see that the parsing headers GeometrySandboxEditor line was written to the console
and then a special utility called the Unreal Header Tool was launched - this is a special
parser-generator that processes all the macros that are in our source code. The first thing this generator
does is that it scans all the header files and looks for header files with the suffix .generated.h
in them - this header file is a marker for the Unreal Header Tool, thanks to which it
understands that this header file needs to be processed, that is, in it contains specific unreal
types, if it does not find this header file in the file, then it will simply ignore it.
After that, the generator goes through all UENUM, USTRUCT, UCLASS, UPROPERTY, UFUNCTION
and generates additional code that is necessary for the reflection system of Unreal Engine. Some of the code
goes to the .generated.h header file, if we press f12, we can see a bunch of generation code.
It is not intended for human reading, but you can note that some wrappers have been created around
our properties, and if we try to search for a class member that is not a property in this file,
press Ctrl + F, then we will not find anything. No additional code has been generated for this class member.
All files are generated in the intermediate directory of our project.
Right-click on the file header, select Open Contain Folder, a subdirectory in the intermediate folder will open,
where all the generated files are located. Besides the header files
, .cpp files are also generated for each class. There is even more code-generation in these files.
There are absolutely monstrous types. And again, these files are also not intended for
human readability, which is completely unnecessary to know what happens internally during normal development.
And one moment. The class has an additional macro called the project name
underscore API. Press f12 on it. the macro is in another generated file,
which is also located in the intermediate directory. You can be convinced of this.
Another macro DLLEXPORT is assigned to it, which has different meanings
for different platforms. We compile for windows, for windows it is __declspec (dllexport)
which essentially means that our class can be exported from a .dll file.
We can also safely delete all the generated files, and if we build the project again,
we will see that the Unreal Header Tool will regenerate them. Also, for example, the intermediate folder contains all the visual studio
project files in the project files directory, moreover, the entire intermediate folder contains temporary files.
Let's close solution. Let's remove the intermediate directory. In the next section, we will talk
more about the directories that are in the root of the project, but for now, let's delete many of them.
And put only the config, content and source folder. Let's also delete the file solution. When you clone the repository
for the first time, you will see exactly this structure of our project.
If you right-click on the .uproject file, you can, for example, change
the engine version, or you can regenerate all visual studio files. If you click on the show log
button , you can see that the Unreal Build Tool is launched, it can also generate
visual studio project files. An intermediate directory was created and all project files were created as well.
Therefore, if it seems to you that the project is not compiling through no fault of yours, then the first thing I
recommend to do is delete all temporary directories and regenerate them again.
Also, after generation, an error sometimes occurs that the solution does not know which
of the projects is starting. You can see how this error looks in the git book.
The solution to this problem is quite simple - right-click on the project of our
game and select set as startup project from the pop-up menu.
This is all in this lesson, now we understand much more about the compilation and assembly process of our project.
If the lesson turned out to be difficult - it's okay, you can, for example, return to it after the end of the course.